[MUSIC].
>> Kevin Whinnery: That was
the spin through the data model.
And now we're gonna get into one of
the parts that I think might be new to
more folks in the room.
Who here today deploys code like on AWS.
>> Speaker 2: Tried.
>> Kevin Whinnery: You try it a little
bit, that's okay, totally fine.
So what we're gonna go
over here is a stack
that we can use in AWS using a few of
their more popular product offerings.
To stand up this
application in production.
Now this is definitely a piddly process.
The reason why I think
not too many people have
deployed code into production on Amazon is
because it's kind of a pain in the butt.
There's a lot of different
things you have to learn.
There's a lot of steps
that you can screw up.
There's security groups and
IM users and configurations and
command line interfaces.
And there's a hundred different
ways you could screw it up.
So what we're going to
do is go through one
pipeline to get a no JS
app deployed on AWS.
Using a combination of elastic stock which
is essentially a managed Amazon instances.
That and that are talking to an RDS
database on the back end, and
that are part of an auto scaling group
that we can configure to add you know more
instances to our application if
necessary to handle bursts in traffic.
And can scale down based on
our requirements as well.
So we'll talk a little bit about the
production environment that we're going to
create a high level.
Talk about some AWS terms and
then what we're actually gonna do is step
through the provisioning of a new
environment which is gonna take a while.
So we'll kind of do it together
over the course of the exercise.
Hopefully with the magic of television we
can cut this up a little bit later because
each step does tend to
take a little while.
But the goal is for everybody to get
the current running version of their
application deployed onto their
own personal AWS account.
That is the desired end state for today.
All right, let's do this thing.
First we'll kind of talk about the stack
we're choosing, kind of where it sits
on the spectrum of possible production
deployment environments for
your web application code.
There's kind of two ends of the spectrum
that you might be familiar with.
There's stuff that is
completely 100% managed and
you're really only
interacting with it via API.
Things like a Firebase which you
see on the far right of the screen.
Firebase is you use an SDK to
sync data to their their backend.
And you don't actually manage
any infrastructure at all.
You're just using their
backend as a service.
There have been other things
like Parse and Convey and
lots of other vendors in this space
that have tried to remove the need for
a backend in your application at all.
On the other extreme, there is virtual
hardware that you manage yourself,
like Digital Ocean,
Virtual Private Servers or Amazon EC2
instances, which are servers that
you configure and deploy code to and
SSH into as if you were managing
a fleet of physical servers.
More towards the middle
is something like Heroku,
where you are running
an actual web application.
But it's on a fully managed stack,
like you can't SSH into the server,
which is running your code.
And the way that your code is run is
actually completely abstracted to you.
You say Heroku,
here's my application, run it for me.
And that works that works out really well.
And then kind of in between,
is this guy this weirdo called
Amazon elastic bean stalk.
And this is sort of the Amazon
answer to Heroku but
it's It's much closer to managed
infrastructure on your end then it
is to Heroku where there's sort of a veil
of secrecy which you can never penetrate.
So, the environment for this
application that we're gonna try out is
a combination or the two key technologies
are Elastic Beanstalk Amazon RDS or
Relational Database Service.
So Elastic Beanstalk is interesting
in that it's more configurable than
most other platforms as a service.
At the end of the day, even though you're
using Elastic Beanstalk to configure it,
you're just running EC2
instances that you can SSH
into that are just like Linux servers
that are alternately under your control.
There are some management
software that is running on them.
And the way that you interact with them
is can be a little wonky sometimes.
But ultimately you have a lot more control
over the actual hardware that your code is
running on than you would
in something like Heroku.
Also because it's part of
like the Amazon ecosystem and
you can manage it through the ministry
of interface, it's easier to make.
Elastic bean stock in play with
other Amazon resources and
I think your quote easy because
if you've ever been in the Amazon
administrative interface before you'll
realize that nothing is ever easy ever.
But if once you do figure it out like
it is actually pretty cool sometimes.
The way that you can set up you
know your DNS with route 53 and
use S3 buckets in cloud front for
your static assets.
There's lots of cool
stuff that you can do but
the a learning curve is incredibly high.
And RTS is a pretty good service.
It's a performant way
to run your database.
It's obviously highly available.
And it has managed software updates and
snapshots.
So a lot of the questions about
reliability of your database kind of go
away by using this this managed service,
which has been working out pretty well.
So this is kind of the topology of the
solution that we're going to create today.
So, the key technologies in the Amazon
world that we're going to be
employing are an Elastic Load Balancer,
and
elastic beanstalk environment
which provisions Amazon,
EC 2 instances within what's
called an auto scaling group.
So we can define rules that say,
all right once the instances
in our application are at 60%
usage of CPU, that's the time to spin
up another instance of the application.
So the elastic load balancer
is what will accept
incoming HTTP traffic from
the from the outside world.
And then, the elastic load balancer will
delegate those HTTP requests to instances
within our auto scaling group which
again is managed by elastic being stuck.
And then all of our instances
are talking to an RTS instance
that we also create within
our Amazon account.
So again at a high level elastic
load balancer is shutting off HTTP
traffic to all the different EC2
instances within our auto scaling group,
all of which are communicating with
an RTS instance on the backend.
So that's what we're trying to create
at least at a very high level.